hi I'm Tim Carter from master builder
comm and I've got a game-changing tool I
want to show you look at this do you
have any clue what this might be
especially with this funny little
telescoping device here well I'll tell
you what it is it's a fluorescent light
bulb tester and it can test to see
whether the lamp is out whether the
ballast is bad and it can also test to
see if the filament in fluorescent light
bulbs are good or not I want to show you
how it works I'm going to go turn the
light fixture off right now actually
wait a minute no let me show you
something
look up above notice how these two light
fixtures that are gather ones working
fine but the one here just above my head
it's not working well we're going to
show you how this little tool can show
you exactly what's wrong I'm going to go
turn off the light fixture that's the
first step to make sure we test the
bulbs I'll be right back okay I'm back
now let's go look to see well first
thing what we got to do is here we have
to turn it on it's kind of dark I don't
know if you can see there's not but I'm
going to turn it on two lamp all right
now what we're going to do is I'm going
to extend this this is what's really
cool by the way
you extend this antenna out and on a
normal ceiling that's 8 feet 9 feet high
you don't even need a ladder you know
you can just stand there and hold the
tool up but unfortunately my garage
ceiling is about 11 feet high so I've
got to get up a little bit on a ladder
to show you how this work now watch this
I just put the little cup in contact
with a bulb and I push the test button
look at it flicker that tells you that
that bulb is okay now let's put it on
the other bulb I push the test button
and notice nothing's happening okay that
tells us that we know that the bulb is
bad so we now know exactly which bulb to
replace if we put in a new bulb it's
going to work just fine
if both bulbs
stood okay and flickered that means the
problem could be in the ballast and so
you just have to turn the control here
to the ballast and you start a similar
testing procedure but it only works for
t8 electronic ballasts you need to make
sure that your light fixture has one of
those and finally here's the coolest
part about this tool let's say you've
got a fluorescent bulb look at this so
first of all the neat thing is if you've
got a bunch of bulbs in your house and
you don't know which ones are good and
which ones are bad same thing you can
actually test them they don't have to be
in the light fixture you turn it back to
the lamp you just hold it like this and
watch what happens I just push the test
button and you can see the bulb
flickering so that tells us that this
bulb is good it's got gas in it all
right now if you want to make sure that
the filaments okay you turn the tool to
pin right down there at the bottom of
the tool is a spot where you actually
plug in the two tips of the the two pins
on the bulb just put it in like that hit
the test button here that that tells us
that the filament from this end of the
bulb is okay and you actually test both
ends of the bulb to see if the filament
is good but can you see how this will be
a huge time-saver it's a great tool
fluorescent light bulb tester if you
work in a factory a commercial building
where there are hundreds and thousands
of fluorescent light bulbs this is going
to save you lots of time and money
I'm Tim Carter for ask the Builder calm
if you want to discover more home
improvement tips go to ask the Builder
calm
you